# EEMT
EEMT stands for Effective Energy and Mass Transfer and is a representation of environmental energy and mass transfer doing work on the Earth's 'critical zone'.

The two EEMT outputs generated by the scripts are based on EEMT-Traditional and EEMT-Topographic which are reported in Rasmussen et al. (2015) Quantifying Topographic and Vegetation Effects on the Transfer of Energy and Mass to the Critical Zone. doi:10.2136/vzj2014.07.0102

This repository consists of a suite of python scripts for creating EEMT models over the University of Arizona's High Performance Computing (HPC) service (http://uits.arizona.edu/research-computing/hpc-services). The user supplies a digital elevation model (DEM), e.g. a 10 m bare earth layer from OpenTopography.org (http://opentopography.org/). The script then calls on a separate directory where observed weather data are stored. We used an archive of monthly averaged 1 km resolution temperature and precipitation values from the DAYMET weather service, available here: http://daymet.ornl.gov/. 

There are numerous dependencies which must be installed into a home directory prior to executing these scripts. These scripts were written to run on one HPC with numerous other basic dependencies pre installed. Our dependencies were installed or compiled from source on the HPC. A list of the dependencies with commands for installation are located in the install_dep.sh within this repository.

All of the GIS software used by the scripts are open-source. Most are licensed under the GNU General Public License. 

To learn more about the NSF Critical Zone Observatories and their science: http://criticalzone.org/national/
